README.md, before:

# Survey of Distributions

Looking at relationships between distributions through code

## Continuous Distributions
for now, the starting point is the normal in code and the gamma in theory, due to the point of reference the gamma serves for other distributions.

### normal distribution
two parameters
- mean (`μ` location parameter)
- variance (`σ^2` scale parameter)

### gamma distribution and special cases
two parameters
- shape (`k`, positive real numbers)
- scale (`θ`, positive real numbers, `β` the inverse scale - 'rate' can also be used where `β=1/θ`)

known as maximum entropy distribution
for processes with waiting times between events... like the waiting time between poisson distributed events

gamma function:
`Γ(k) = (k − 1)!`

### Erlang is a case of gamma
two parameters
- shape (`k` positive **integer**)
- rate (`λ` positive real number, 'scale' - reciprocal of rate can also be used)

**in relation to gamma**

it's the gamma distribution with the shape parameter as an integer

the sum of `k` independent exponentially distributed random variables with mean `θ`
thought of as probability distribution of waiting time until `k-th` arrival.

### exponential distribution
one parameter
- rate (`λ` over the interval ``[0,∞)``)

**in relation to gamma**

- as an Erlang distribution with the shape parameter 'fixed' as `k=1`
  - the sum of `k` exponential distributions is an Erlang distribution with `(k,λ)`
  - by extension, as a gamma distribution
- as the probability distribution of time between events of a poisson distribution
- backwards, `n` independent and identically distributed  exponential distributions random variables  sum to a gamma distribution with shape `n` and rate `λ`

in relation to discrete distributions it's the continuous case of the geometric

### chi-squared distribution
one parameter
- degrees of freedom (`k`, the sum of the squared of independent standard normal distributions)

**in relation to gamma**

chi-squared is a special case of the gamma distribution with `ν` degrees of freedom, where gamma(ν/2 ,2) = to χ2(ν)

used in hypothesis testing, as goodness of fit and

### normal distribution
two parameters
- location (`μ` mean parameter)
- scale (`σ^2` variance parameter)


for large `k` the gamma distribution converges to the normal distribution

### cauchy distribution
two parameters
- location
- scale

two independent standard normal divided by one another

cauchy distribution has no mean, variance, or higher moments defined.
The mode and median are deifne and equal to the location parameter.

cauchy(0,1) is a student's t with 1 degree of freedom t(df=1), this is also called the standard cauchy distribution

### dirichlet distribution
two parameters
- categories (`k`, where `k` is a integer ≥ 2)
- concentration (`𝛼`, where `𝛼 > 0`)


**in relation to gamma**

the gamma distribution can generate random vectors that form a dirichlet distribution

multivariate generalization of beta distribution
can be thought of as 'a distribution over distributions'
  - sampling from a dirichlet results in a distribution


### beta distribution
two parameters
- shape (`𝛼`)
- shape (`β`)

'distribution over distributions', defining binomial coefficient for continuous variables


**in relation to gamma**

is a gamma distribution divided by the sum of that gamma distribution with another.
 a gamma(1) / (gamma(1) + gamma(2))

 the beta function is the product of two iid gamma functions divided by the sum of the two random variables in a gamma function.


## Discrete Distributions
starting with the negative binomial distribution, due to relationship with gamma


### negative binomial
number of successes in a sequence of independent and identically distributed (iid) **Bernoulli** trials before `r` failures

can view the negative binomial as **poisson** distribution with `λ` being a random variable with a gamma distribution with shape `r` and scale `θ = p/(1-p)`

under certain parameters the negative binomial converges to the poisson

## To add

### Pearson distributions
four continuous distributions

### Tweedie distribution

### t-distribution

### f-distribution


## Sources

[wiki list of distribitions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_probability_distributions)

Commit message:

update distribution code, break out normal

README.md, after:

# Survey of Distributions

Looking at relationships between distributions through code

## Continuous Distributions
for now, the starting point is the gamma in theory and code in `distributions.py`, due to the point of reference the gamma serves for other distributions.

### normal distribution
two parameters
- mean (`μ` location parameter)
- variance (`σ^2` scale parameter)

### gamma distribution and special cases
two parameters
- shape (`k`, positive real numbers)
- scale (`θ`, positive real numbers, `β` the inverse scale - 'rate' can also be used where `β=1/θ`)

known as maximum entropy distribution
for processes with waiting times between events... like the waiting time between poisson distributed events

constructed using exponentials and the gamma function for positive integers:
`Γ(k) = (k − 1)!`

### Erlang is a case of gamma
two parameters
- shape (`k` positive **integer**)
- rate (`λ` positive real number, 'scale' - reciprocal of rate can also be used)

**in relation to gamma** it's the gamma distribution with the shape parameter as an integer

the sum of `k` independent exponentially distributed random variables with mean `θ`
thought of as probability distribution of waiting time until `k-th` arrival.

### exponential distribution
one parameter
- rate (`λ` over the interval ``[0,∞)``)

**in relation to gamma**
- as an Erlang distribution with the shape parameter 'fixed' as `k=1`
  - the sum of `k` exponential distributions is an Erlang distribution with `(k,λ)`
  - by extension, as a gamma distribution
- as the probability distribution of time between events of a poisson distribution
- backwards, `n` independent and identically distributed  exponential distributions random variables  sum to a gamma distribution with shape `n` and rate `λ`

in relation to discrete distributions it's the continuous case of the geometric

### chi-squared distribution
one parameter
- degrees of freedom (`k`, the sum of the squared of independent standard normal distributions)

**in relation to gamma** chi-squared is a special case of the gamma distribution with `ν` degrees of freedom, where gamma(ν/2 ,2) = to χ2(ν)

used in hypothesis testing, as goodness of fit and

### normal distribution
two parameters
- location (`μ` mean parameter)
- scale (`σ^2` variance parameter)


for large `k` the gamma distribution converges to the normal distribution

### cauchy distribution
two parameters
- location
- scale

two independent standard normal divided by one another

cauchy distribution has no mean, variance, or higher moments defined.
The mode and median are deifne and equal to the location parameter.

cauchy(0,1) is a student's t with 1 degree of freedom t(df=1), this is also called the standard cauchy distribution

### dirichlet distribution
two parameters
- categories (`k`, where `k` is a integer ≥ 2)
- concentration (`𝛼`, where `𝛼 > 0`)


**in relation to gamma** the gamma distribution can generate random vectors that form a dirichlet distribution

multivariate generalization of beta distribution
can be thought of as 'a distribution over distributions'
  - sampling from a dirichlet results in a distribution


### beta distribution
two parameters
- shape (`𝛼`)
- shape (`β`)

'distribution over distributions', defining binomial coefficient for continuous variables


**in relation to gamma**

is a gamma distribution divided by the sum of that gamma distribution with another.
 a gamma(1) / (gamma(1) + gamma(2))

 the beta function is the product of two iid gamma functions divided by the sum of the two random variables in a gamma function.


## Discrete Distributions
starting with the negative binomial distribution, due to relationship with gamma


### negative binomial
number of successes in a sequence of independent and identically distributed (iid) **Bernoulli** trials before `r` failures

can view the negative binomial as **poisson** distribution with `λ` being a random variable with a gamma distribution with shape `r` and scale `θ = p/(1-p)`

under certain parameters the negative binomial converges to the poisson

## To add

### Pearson distributions
four continuous distributions

### Tweedie distribution

### t-distribution

### f-distribution


## Sources

[wiki list of distribitions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_probability_distributions)
